.TH git-annex-importfeed 1
.SH NAME
git-annex-importfeed \- import files from podcast feeds
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
git annex importfeed \fB[url ...]\fP
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Imports the contents of podcasts and other feeds. Only downloads files whose
content has not already been added to the repository before, so you can
delete, rename, etc the resulting files and repeated runs won't duplicate
them.
.PP
When \fByoutube\-dl\fP is installed, it can be used to download links in the feed.
This allows importing e.g., YouTube playlists.
(However, this is disabled by default as it can be a security risk. 
See the documentation of annex.security.allowed\-ip\-addresses
in git-annex(1) for details.)
.PP
To make the import process add metadata to the imported files from the feed,
\fBgit config annex.genmetadata true\fP
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-force\fP"
.IP
Force downloading items it's seen before.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-template\fP"
Controls where the files are stored.
.IP
The default template is '${feedtitle}/${itemtitle}${extension}'
.IP
Other available variables for templates: feedauthor, itemauthor, itemsummary, itemdescription, itemrights, itemid, itempubdate, title, author
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-relaxed\fP, \fB\-\-fast\fP, \fB\-\-raw\fP"
These options behave the same as when using git-annex\-addurl(1).
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-fast\fP"
Avoid immediately downloading urls. The url is still checked
(via HEAD) to verify that it exists, and to get its size if possible.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-relaxed\fP"
Don't immediately download urls, and avoid storing the size of the
url's content. This makes git-annex accept whatever content is there
at a future point.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-raw\fP"
Prevent special handling of urls by youtube\-dl, bittorrent, and other
special remotes. This will for example, make importfeed
download a .torrent file and not the contents it points to.
.IP
.SH SEE ALSO
git-annex(1)
.PP
git-annex\-addurl(1)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Joey Hess <id@joeyh.name>
.PP
.PP

