.TH git-annex-examinekey 1
.SH NAME
git-annex-examinekey \- prints information from a key
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
git annex examinekey \fB[key ...]\fP
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This plumbing\-level command is given a key, and prints information
that can be determined purely by looking at the key.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-format=value\fP"
.IP
Use custom output formatting.
.IP
The value is a format string, in which '${var}' is expanded to the
value of a variable. To right\-justify a variable with whitespace,
use '${var;width}' ; to left\-justify a variable, use '${var;\-width}';
to escape unusual characters in a variable, use '${escaped_var}'
.IP
These variables are available for use in formats: key, backend,
bytesize, humansize, keyname, hashdirlower, hashdirmixed, mtime (for
the mtime field of a WORM key).
.IP
Also, '\\n' is a newline, '\\000' is a NULL, etc.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-json\fP"
Enable JSON output. This is intended to be parsed by programs that use
git-annex. Each line of output is a JSON object.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-json\-error\-messages\fP"
Messages that would normally be output to standard error are included in
the json instead.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-batch\fP"
Enable batch mode, in which a line containing a key is read from stdin,
the information about it is output to stdout, and repeat.
.IP
.SH EXAMPLES
The location where the content of a key is stored can be looked up by running:
.PP
 git annex examinekey $KEY \-\-format='.git/annex/objects/${hashdirmixed}${key}/${key}'
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
git-annex(1)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Joey Hess <id@joeyh.name>
.PP
.PP

