.TH git-annex-shell 1
.SH NAME
git-annex\-shell \- Restricted login shell for git-annex only SSH access
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
git-annex\-shell [\-c] command [params ...]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
git-annex\-shell is a restricted shell, similar to git\-shell, which
can be used as a login shell for SSH accounts.
.PP
Since its syntax is identical to git\-shell's, it can be used as a drop\-in
replacement anywhere git\-shell is used. For example it can be used as a 
user's restricted login shell.
.PP
.SH COMMANDS
Any command not listed below is passed through to git\-shell.
.PP
Note that the directory parameter should be an absolute path, otherwise
it is assumed to be relative to the user's home directory. Also the
first "/~/" or "/~user/" is expanded to the specified home directory.
.PP
.IP "configlist directory"
This outputs a subset of the git configuration, in the same form as
\fBgit config \-\-list\fP. This is used to get the annex.uuid of the remote
repository.
.IP
When run in a repository that does not yet have an annex.uuid, one
will be created, as long as a git-annex branch has already been pushed to
the repository, or if the autoinit= flag is used to indicate
initialization is desired.
.IP
.IP "inannex directory [key ...]"
This checks if all specified keys are present in the annex, 
and exits zero if so.
.IP
Exits 1 if the key is certainly not present in the annex.
Exits 100 if it's unable to tell (perhaps the key is in the process of
being removed from the annex).
.IP
.IP "lockcontent directory key"
This locks a key's content in place in the annex, preventing it from
being dropped.
.IP
Once the content is successfully locked, outputs "OK". Then the content
remains locked until a newline is received from the caller or the
connection is broken.
.IP
Exits nonzero if the content is not present, or could not be locked.
.IP
.IP "dropkey directory [key ...]"
This drops the annexed data for the specified keys.
.IP
.IP "recvkey directory key"
This runs rsync in server mode to receive the content of a key,
and stores the content in the annex.
.IP
.IP "sendkey directory key"
This runs rsync in server mode to transfer out the content of a key.
.IP
.IP "transferinfo directory key"
This is typically run at the same time as sendkey is sending a key
to the remote. Using it is optional, but is used to update
progress information for the transfer of the key.
.IP
It reads lines from standard input, each giving the number of bytes
that have been received so far. 
.IP
.IP "commit directory"
This commits any staged changes to the git-annex branch.
It also runs the annex\-content hook.
.IP
.IP "notifychanges directory"
This is used by \fBgit-annex remotedaemon\fP to be notified when
refs in the remote repository are changed.
.IP
.IP "gcryptsetup directory gcryptid"
Sets up a repository as a gcrypt repository.
.IP
.IP "p2pstdio directory uuid"
This causes git-annex\-shell to communicate using the git-annex p2p
protocol over stdio. When supported by git-annex\-shell, this allows
multiple actions to be run over a single connection, improving speed.
.IP
The uuid is the one belonging to the repository that will be
communicating with git-annex\-shell.
.IP
.SH OPTIONS
Most options are the same as in git-annex. The ones specific
to git-annex\-shell are:
.PP
.IP "\-\-uuid=UUID"
git-annex uses this to specify the UUID of the repository it was expecting
git-annex\-shell to access, as a sanity check.
.IP
.IP "\-\- fields=val fields=val.. \-\-"
Additional fields may be specified this way, to retain compatibility with
past versions of git-annex\-shell (that ignore these, but would choke
on new dashed options).
.IP
Currently used fields include remoteuuid=, associatedfile=,
unlocked=, direct=, and autoinit=
.IP
.SH HOOK
After content is received or dropped from the repository by git-annex\-shell,
it runs a hook, \fB.git/hooks/annex\-content\fP (or \fBhooks/annex\-content\fP on a bare
repository). The hook is not currently passed any information about what
changed.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP "GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_READONLY"
.IP
If set, disallows any action that could modify the git-annex 
repository.
.IP
Note that this does not prevent passing commands on to git\-shell.
For that, you also need ...
.IP
.IP "GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_LIMITED"
If set, disallows running git\-shell to handle unknown commands.
.IP
.IP "GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_APPENDONLY"
If set, allows data to be written to the git-annex repository,
but does not allow data to be removed from it.
.IP
Note that this does not prevent passing commands on to git\-shell,
so you will have to separately configure git to reject pushes that
overwrite branches or are otherwise not appends. The git pre\-receive
hook may be useful for accomplishing this.
.IP
It's a good idea to enable annex.securehashesonly in a repository
that's set up this way.
.IP
.IP "GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_DIRECTORY"
If set, git-annex\-shell will refuse to run commands that do not operate
on the specified directory.
.IP
.SH EXAMPLES
To make a \fB~/.ssh/authorized_keys\fP file that only allows git-annex\-shell
to be run, and not other commands, pass the original command to the \-c
option:
.PP
 command="git-annex\-shell \-c \\"$SSH_ORIGINAL_COMMAND\\"",no\-agent\-forwarding,no\-port\-forwarding,no\-X11\-forwarding ssh\-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1y[...] user@example.com
.PP
To further restrict git-annex\-shell to a particular repository, 
and fully lock it down to read\-only mode:
.PP
 command="GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_DIRECTORY=/srv/annex GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_LIMITED=true GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_READONLY=true git-annex\-shell \-c \\"$SSH_ORIGINAL_COMMAND\\"",restrict ssh\-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1y[...] user@example.com
.PP
Obviously, \fBssh\-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1y[...] user@example.com\fP needs to
replaced with your SSH key. The above also assumes \fBgit-annex\-shell\fP
is available in your \fB$PATH\fP, use an absolute path if it is not the
case. Also note how the above uses the \fBrestrict\fP option instead of an
explicit list of functionality to disallow. This only works in certain
OpenSSH releases, starting from 7.1p2.
.PP
To only allow adding new objects to the repository, the
\fBGIT_ANNEX_SHELL_APPENDONLY\fP variable can be used as well:
.PP
command="GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_DIRECTORY=/srv/annex GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_APPENDONLY=true git-annex\-shell \-c \\"$SSH_ORIGINAL_COMMAND\\"",restrict ssh\-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1y[...] user@example.com
.PP
This will not keep an attacker from destroying the git history, as
explained above. For this you might want to disallow certain
operations, like branch deletion and force\-push, with options from
git\-config(1). For example:
.PP
git config receive.denyDeletes true
git config receive.denyNonFastForwards true
.PP
With this configuration, git commits can still remove files, 
but they will still be available in the git history and git-annex will
retain their contents. Changes to \fBgit-annex\fP branch, however, can
negatively impact git-annex's location tracking information and might
cause data loss. To work around this problem, more complex hooks
are required, see for example the \fBupdate\-paranoid\fP hook in the git
source distribution.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
git-annex(1)
.PP
git\-shell(1)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Joey Hess <id@joeyh.name>
.PP
<http://git-annex.branchable.com/>
.PP
.PP

