.TH git-annex-info 1
.SH NAME
git-annex-info \- information about an item or the repository
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
git annex info \fB[directory|file|treeish|remote|description|uuid ...]\fP
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays statistics and other information for the specified item,
which can be a directory, or a file, or a treeish, or a remote,
or the description or uuid of a repository.
.PP
When no item is specified, displays statistics and information
for the local repository and all known annexed files.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-fast\fP"
.IP
Only show the data that can be gathered quickly.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-json\fP"
Enable JSON output. This is intended to be parsed by programs that use
git-annex. Each line of output is a JSON object.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-json\-error\-messages\fP"
Messages that would normally be output to standard error are included in
the json instead.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-bytes\fP"
Show file sizes in bytes, disabling the default nicer units.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-batch\fP"
Enable batch mode, in which a line containing an item is read from stdin,
the information about it is output to stdout, and repeat.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-z\fP"
Makes the \fB\-\-batch\fP input be delimited by nulls instead of the usual
newlines.
.IP
.IP "file matching options"
When a directory is specified, the git-annex\-matching\-options(1)
can be used to select the files in the directory that are included
in the statistics.
.IP
.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose you want to run "git annex get .", but
would first like to see how much disk space that will use.
Then run:
.PP
 git annex info \-\-fast . \-\-not \-\-in here
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
git-annex(1)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Joey Hess <id@joeyh.name>
.PP
.PP

