.TH git-annex-p2p 1
.SH NAME
git-annex-p2p \- configure peer\-2\-peer links between repositories
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
git annex p2p [options]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command can be used to link git-annex repositories over peer\-2\-peer
networks.
.PP
Currently, the only P2P network supported by git-annex is Tor hidden
services.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-pair\fP"
.IP
Run this in two repositories to pair them together over the P2P network.
.IP
This will print out a code phrase, like "3\-mango\-elephant", and
will prompt for you to enter the code phrase from the other repository.
.IP
Once code phrases have been exchanged, the two repositories will
be paired. A git remote will be created for the other repository,
with a name like "peer1".
.IP
This uses [Magic Wormhole](https://github.com/warner/magic\-wormhole)
to verify the code phrases and securely communicate the P2P addresses of
the repositories, so you will need it installed on both computers that are
being paired.
.IP
This feature was present in a broken form in git-annex versions
before version 6.20180705. Make sure that a new enough git-annex
is installed on both computers that are being paired.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-gen\-addresses\fP"
Generates addresses that can be used to access this git-annex repository
over the available P2P networks. The address or addresses is output to
stdout. 
.IP
Note that anyone who knows these addresses can access your
repository over the P2P networks.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-link\fP"
Sets up a git remote that is accessed over a P2P network.
.IP
This will prompt for an address to be entered; you should paste in the
address that was generated by \-\-gen\-addresses in the remote repository.
.IP
Defaults to making the git remote be named "peer1", "peer2",
etc. This can be overridden with the \fB\-\-name\fP option.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-name\fP"
Specify a name to use when setting up a git remote with \fB\-\-link\fP
or \fB\-\-pair\fP.
.IP
.SH SEE ALSO
git-annex(1)
.PP
git-annex\-enable\-tor(1)
.PP
git-annex\-remotedaemon(1)
.PP
wormhole(1)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Joey Hess <id@joeyh.name>
.PP
.PP

