.TH git-annex-reinject 1
.SH NAME
git-annex-reinject \- inject content of file back into annex
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
git annex reinject \fB[src dest]\fP
.PP
git annex reinject \-\-known \fB[src]\fP
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Moves the content of the src file or files into the annex.
Only known file contents will be reinjected. Any unknown src files will
be left unchanged.
.PP
This can be useful if you have obtained the content of a file from
elsewhere and want to put it in the local annex. For example, if a file's
content has been lost and you have a backup, you can restore the backup and
reinject it into your local repository.
.PP
There are two ways to use this command. Specifying a src file and the name
of a dest file (located inside the repository's working tree)
injects the src file as the content of the dest file.
.PP
 git annex reinject /tmp/foo.iso foo.iso
.PP
Or the \fB\-\-known\fP option can be used to reinject all known src files, without
needing to specify the dest file.
.PP
 git annex reinject \-\-known /tmp/*.iso
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-known\fP"
.IP
With this option, each specified src file is hashed using the default
key\-value backend (or the one specified with \fB\-\-backend\fP), and if git-annex
has a record of the file having been in the annex before, the content is
reinjected.
.IP
Note that this will reinject old versions of files that have been
modified or deleted from the current git branch.
Use git-annex\-unused(1) to detect when such old and potentially
unused files have been reinjected.
.IP
.IP "\fB\-\-backend\fP"
Specify the key\-value backend to use when checking if a file is known
with the \fB\-\-known\fP option.
.IP
.SH SEE ALSO
git-annex(1)
.PP
git-annex\-add(1)
.PP
git-annex\-unused(1)
.PP
git-annex\-fsck(1)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Joey Hess <id@joeyh.name>
.PP
.PP

